Dave carries on with the next topic.
Let's now look at the different types
of files in Linux.
There is a common phrase associated
with Linux that goes like this,
“Everything is a file in Linux.”
This is a generic statement
that is true in principle.
What this phrase tries to convey is
every object in Linux can be
considered to be a type of file.
Even a directory, for example,
is a special type of file.
There are three types of files, regular,
directory and special files.
Regular files, these are
the most common type of files
that contains some text, data or images.
Examples are configuration files,
shell scripts or code, JPG files, et cetera.
Directory is a type of file as well that
stores other files and directories within.
The simplest example of this
is your home directory.
Special files can be subcategorized
into five other file types.
Character files.
These files represent devices
under the /dev file system
that allows the OS to communicate
to IO devices serially.
Examples include devices such as
the mouse and the keyboard.
Block files.
These are files representing block devices
also located under /dev.
We saw these when we learned
about the lsblk command.
In simple terms, a block device reads from
and writes to the device in blocks
or a chunk of data.
Examples of a block device
are hard disks and RAM.
Links in Linux is a way to associate two or
more file names to the same set of file data.
There are two types of links.
The hard link associates two
or more file names
that share the same block of data
on the physical disk.
Although they behave as independent files,
deleting one link will delete the data.
The symbolic link or symlink can be loosely
compared to a shortcut in Windows.
They act as pointers to another file.
Deleting a symlink does not affect
the data in the actual file.
A socket is a special file that enables
the communication between two processes.
Finally, named pipes.
This is a special type of file that allows
connecting one process as an input to another.
the data flow in a pipe is unidirectional
from the first process to the second.
We will look at named pipes
in more detail later.
Let us now see how to identify
the different file types in Linux.
One way to do this is by making use
of the file command like this.
In these examples, running the command file
with the file or directory name
displays the file type.
Another way to do this is by running an LS
or list storage command
with the -l flag with the file
or directory as the argument.
From the command output,
look at the first character.
The letter D denotes that this is a directory.
Similarly, we can identify
the rest of the file types
by checking the first letter in the ls-l output.
Regular files can be identified by a dash,
character devices by the letter c,
link, by the lowercase letter l,
socket file by the letter s,
named pipes by the letter p
and finally, block device by the letter b.